
--- Page 1 ---
August 18, 2023
Dear Friends,
Thank you for being an Echodyne customer. While this letter signals the release of our newest firmware for
EchoGuard and EchoFlight, v16.4, we are also taking this opportunity to announce a new program that will deliver
greater value from your investment in Echodyne radars through ongoing improvements in software – both on the
radar and off.
Since originally releasing EchoGuard and EchoFlight several years ago, we have continued to invest in improving
radar functionality through firmware releases. Our software-defined radars are designed for continuous
advancement and Echodyne strives to be the industry leader in software-defined capabilities.
In addition to software on the radar (firmware), there are also many opportunities for off-radar software to add
features and capabilities that enhance the overall radar solution. One example is Radar Track Fusion where off-
radar software fuses data from multiple radars to produce a single track for an object that moves across multiple
radars’ field of view. When leveraged correctly, combining on- and off-radar software creates the most robust
overall radar solution.
To support ongoing improvements in our total radar solution, Echodyne is combining on-radar firmware, off-radar
software, and expert technical support into a single package called Software Updates & Technical Support, or just
S&S. The S&S bundle is the key to ongoing and continuous improvement of the radar hardware you already own.
We have several exciting new products and performance enhancements in the queue across our radar solutions,
including:
• EchoShield. Many of our customers have expanding needs and EchoShield delivers unrivaled range and
accuracy for mission sets from CUAS and Border Surveillance to Ground-based Support Systems for
Advanced Air Mobility, as well as On-the-Move (OTM) and a range of software-defined features that make
this a market leading radar.
• EchoGuard (on-radar s/w) – Improved track-level classification, easier and more extensive radar
networking, new clutter masking tools, and more.
• EchoFlight (on-radar s/w) – Improved clutter masking for low altitude flight, improved tracking
performance, and more.
• RadarNet (off-radar s/w) – Aggregates and fuses tracks from networked radars to present a single radar
interface to the UI and to C2 environments. Improved track fusion performance, new packet output
formats such as TAK and FAADC2, and UI improvements are all planned.
• RadarUI (off-radar s/w) – New alarm zoning and alerting capability, additional track filtering options
including filtering by target type, simplified tools for configuring your radar, and more.
• Support for the latest Linux and Windows operating systems including Ubuntu 22+ and Windows 11.
As we looked across the competitive landscape while designing this program, the standard practice is to monetize
each software component individually. Instead, we’ve chosen a different path. One annual fee opens the radar
engineering closet of radar software and expertise you need to move your projects forward.
The FAQ below explains the S&S package. To add the S&S package or if there are additional questions, please reply
to this email or contact your representative.
We look forward to improving your Echodyne experience with each new software release and support interaction.
We are excited to continue the journey of reinventing radar for the modern world and are grateful that you have
placed your trust with Echodyne.
Sincerely,
Eben Frankenberg
Chief Executive Officer
12112 115th Ave NE, Ste. A, Kirkland, WA, 98034 USA +1-425-454-3246 | info@echodyne.com
--- Page 2 ---
Frequently Asked Questions
Q: What is the name of the new package?
A: The new package is named Software Updates & Technical Support, which we refer to as S&S. It is already
a part of all new radar sales and will be available to existing customers as of July 1, 2023.
Q: When does this package come into force?
A: Effective July 1, 2023, all customers will need to have the S&S package to access covered software
resources, including firmware releases beyond v16.4, and receive priority technical response
(support@echodyne.com). Customers without the S&S package will continue to maintain access to v16.4 firmware.
Q: What are the costs?
A: The following table describes the cost for S&S
per radar Annual plan 3-year plan 5-year plan
EchoGuard $2,796.50 $8,389.50 $13,982.50
EchoFlight $2,096.50 $6,289.50 $10,482.50
Q: What happens if we elect to not choose the S&S package?
A: All Echodyne customers will have ungated and uninterrupted access to the latest firmware release as of
July 1, 2023, version 16.4. Inquiries to support@echodyne.com will receive a response as soon as possible. All
inquiries to support@echodyne.com will be handled in the order received, with S&S customers receiving support
ahead of customers without the package.
Q: What is included in the package?
A: The S&S package consists of:
• On-radar (firmware) releases.
• Off-radar software
• Priority response from technical support (support@echodyne.com)
Q: Can I add the package later?
A: Yes, of course you can add the package whenever you like. Until then v16.4 will be available to you
and support inquiries will be handled on a best effort basis.
Q: If I opt to not add the S&S package, will my software eventually be obsolete?
A: No. The company has no plans to cease support of v16.4.
Q: If I have the S&S package, do the software updates happen automatically?
A: All customers will receive notices of software releases, whether on- or off-radar software, that includes
Release Notes on enhancements. The releases will be available via the Echodyne customer portal for those
customers with an active S&S package. Echodyne does not “push” software to the radar.
12112 115th Ave NE, Ste. A, Kirkland, WA, 98034 USA +1-425-454-3246 | info@echodyne.com