SW1 8.1 Suite Release Notes  
   Doc:  901940  Rev:  01 August 2025  
 ECHODYNE PROPRIETARY - SUBJECT TO NDA OR PI A   Copyright © 2025  Echodyne Corp.  All rights reserved.  Page 1 of 2 
SW18.1  
Release Features:  
• Improved the multiclass classifier, resulting in significant classification performance. Th e SW18.1  release 
replaces the earlier decision tree model used in SW 17.0 with a more sophisticated random forest 
model , yielding improved accuracy in classifying objects, with notable gains in UAV recognition.  For 
more information on the multiclass classifier improvements, contact support  to obtain the Echodyne® 
EchoGuard Multi -class Classifier (SW 18.1) white paper.  
• Added net:port23enable  command to the list of NET User Commands. The net:port23enable  command 
disables port 23. This new command results in additions to all SYSPARAM queries. This 
command/setting should be persistent such that it persists through power cycles. For more information, 
refer to the EchoGuard Developer Manual . 
• Added new command to enable/disable CFAR (Constant Fale Alarm Rate), measurements, and track 
processing. Default value for RSP:CFAR:ENABLE is now set to “true” such that CFAR processing is 
enabled. This is a particularly useful feature for customers who le verage RV Map data.  
 
When set to “false”, CFAR is disabled – resulting in no Detect, Measurements, or Track packets. To reset 
the parameter back to an enabled state, the RESET:PARAMETER is required. You can also reset the 
parameter using CFAR:  
 
RSP:CFAR:E NABLE <pswd> true  
 
For more information, refer to the EchoGuard Developer Manual .  
• Added information that details when downgrading an EchoGuard radar from software version 18.1.4 to 
18.0.4, the radar's IP address will revert to the default only if the radar is set to a custom (non -default) IP 
address. This behavior applies only in this specific downgrade scenario . 
 
NOTE: After downgrading, if the radar's IP address is reset to the default, the Radar Update Utility (RUU) 
will automatically restore it to its original IP address. In order for the RUU to restore the original IP 
address, it must first talk to the radar on the default IP within the 169.254.1.X (excluding 169.254.1.10) 
subnet.  
 
For customers not using the RUU,  you may still be affected. Please use the above guidance regarding 
the specific downgrade from 18.1.4 to 18.0.4.  
 
For full details, refer to its corresponding new section, “Software Downgrade (Custom/Non -default IP 
only) ” in the EchoGuard ™ Developer  Manual . 
• Replaced DAA references with “Airborne”  (where nec essary) and m ade minor copyedits (throughout) 
for clarity and conciseness  in the EchoGuard ™ Developer  Manual . 
• Moved TIME:CHANNEL:PWRTHRESHOLD from “SUPER -USER COMMANDS” section to its correct status 
(as an engineering command) in the “USER COMMANDS” section  of the EchoGuard Developer Manual . 
SW1 8.1 Suite Release Notes  
   Doc:  901940  Rev:  01 August 2025  
 ECHODYNE PROPRIETARY - SUBJECT TO NDA OR PI A   Copyright © 2025  Echodyne Corp.  All rights reserved.  Page 2 of 2 
• Added additional hazard warnings in both the EchoGuard Developer Manual and EchoGuard User 
Manual . 
Reminder: All Feedback is Useful Feedback ! 
We’d love to hear how things are going, especially if you are actively testing the radar. Please reach out and we’d 
be happy to schedule a call.  